feat: adding glossary (#227)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/concepts/09_glossary.md

---
id: glossary
title: KILT Glossary
---

Here is a glossary of terms related to the KILT Protocol:

## W3C: Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)

### Decentralized Identifiers (DID)

> Stands for Decentralized Identifier, a unique identifier for entities (people, organizations, or things) that is anchored to a blockchain and provides verifiable digital identity. For example, did:kilt:4sxSYXakw1ZXBymzT9t3Yw91mUaqKST5bFUEjGEpvkTuckar. In KILT, identity is built by adding credentials to the DID. A DID can be used for people, machines, services and anything that identities can be built on.

Reviewer: One-sentence-one line rule, and DIDs do not HAVE to be stored on a blockchain,

```suggestion
Stands for Decentralized Identifier, a unique identifier for entities (people, organizations, or things) that can be anchored to a blockchain and provides verifiable digital identity.
For example, **did:kilt:4sxSYXakw1ZXBymzT9t3Yw91mUaqKST5bFUEjGEpvkTuckar**.
In KILT, identity is built by obtaining credentials linked to the DID.
A DID can be used for people, machines, services and anything that identities can be built on.
```

### DID Authentication

DID authentication is the process of proving that a DID owner has control over a DID, typically by using a digital signature or other cryptographic mechanism.

### DID Communication

DID communication refers to the use of DIDs to enable secure and decentralized communication between two or more parties, without the need for a central intermediary.

### DID Controller

A DID controller is an entity that has control over a DID, such as the entity that created the DID or an entity that has been authorized by the DID owner to manage the DID.

### DID Document

A DID document is a JSON-LD document that contains information about a DID, including public keys, service endpoints, and other metadata.

### DID Method

A DID method is a set of rules and specifications for how a DID is created, resolved, and managed on a particular network or platform.

### DID Resolver

A DID resolver is a software component that can resolve a DID to a DID Document, which contains information about the DID, such as public keys, service endpoints, and other metadata.

### Self-Sovereign Identity

> A decentralized digital identity management system that enables individuals to own and control their identity information using secure digital technologies, such as blockchain. SSI eliminates the need for intermediaries and provides individuals with greater privacy, security, and control over their personal data. It is an emerging concept that has the potential to transform how identity is managed and verified across various sectors.

Reviewer: Should we say that SSI is still an emerging concept? I would not say so, honestly.

```suggestion
A decentralized digital identity management system that enables individuals to own and control their identity information using secure digital technologies, such as blockchain.
SSI eliminates the need for intermediaries and provides individuals with greater privacy, security, and control over their personal data.
It is an emerging concept that has the potential to transform how identity is managed and verified across various sectors.
```

### Verifiable Credentials

> Verifiable credentials are digital credentials that can be used to prove claims about a person, organization, or thing, and are designed to be portable, interoperable, and privacy-preserving. Verifiable credentials are often associated with DIDs and can be stored and managed using a DID-based identity system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifiable credentials are digital credentials that can be used to prove claims about a person, organization, or thing, and are designed to be portable, interoperable, and privacy-preserving.
Verifiable credentials are often associated with DIDs and can be stored and managed using a DID-based identity system.
```

## KILT Protocol Specific Terms

### Attestation

> The act of providing evidence or confirming the validity of a claim, typically performed by a trusted third party.

Reviewer: Who would be the third-party?

```suggestion
The act of providing evidence or confirming the validity of a claim, typically performed by a trusted attester.
```

### Attester

> A person or organization or entity that verifies or validates the identity or credentials of an individual in a digital or physical setting. Attesters play a critical role in building trust and establishing the authenticity of information and data shared between parties.

Reviewer: The first sentence sounds like the attester is actually the verifier.

```suggestion
A person, organization or entity that verifies and validates the identity or credentials of an individual in a digital or physical setting.
Attesters play a critical role in building trust and establishing the authenticity of information and data shared between parties.
```

### Claimer

> An individual or entity that asserts a claim or statement about their identity or qualifications. The claimer can use digital credentials, such as badges or certificates, to provide evidence of their claims, which can be verified by third-party entities or systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An individual or entity that asserts a claim or statement about their identity or qualifications.
The claimer can use digital credentials, such as badges or certificates, to provide evidence of their claims, which can be verified by third-party entities or systems.
```

### Claim Type (CType)

> A specific type of claim that can be made about an individual, such as their education, work experience, or identity information. Each claim type has a defined set of attributes that must be provided to support the claim, and it can be used to generate verifiable credentials that can be shared with others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A specific type of claim that can be made about an individual, such as their education, work experience, or identity information.
Each claim type has a defined set of attributes that must be provided to support the claim, and it can be used to generate verifiable credentials that can be shared with others.
```

### Credential

> A verifiable digital representation of a claim made by a claimer, which has been attested to by a trusted entity, such as an attester. It consists of a set of attributes that describe the claim and the proof of its validity, and can be shared with third parties to provide verifiable proof of the claim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A verifiable digital representation of a claim made by a claimer, which has been attested to by a trusted entity, such as an attester.
It consists of a set of attributes that describe the claim and the proof of its validity, and can be shared with third parties to provide verifiable proof of the claim.
```

> ### Digital Identity

Reviewer: Is this really a KILT term?

Author: This is how KILT defines the term. What do you think we should do about this? My suggestion is like this
```suggestion
### KILT Digital Identity
```

Reviewer: Sound good!

A self-sovereign identity that is owned and controlled by the individual or entity it represents. It consists of verifiable credentials that are issued by trusted entities, such as attesters, and can be used to prove claims about the individual or entity's identity, qualifications, or other attributes.

### KILT Coin

> The native coin of the KILT Protocol, used for staking, used for extrinsics and as a means of exchange on the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The native coin of the KILT Protocol network, used for staking, transaction fees and as a means of exchange on the network.
```

### KILT Protocol

> An open-source blockchain protocol for issuing self-sovereign, and verifiable credentials for Web3, the next generation of the internet. KILT’s mission is to return control over personal data to its owner, restoring privacy to the individual. Developers and entrepreneurs can use KILT’s SDK to quickly spin up applications for issuing, holding and verifying credentials in order to create businesses around identity and privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An open-source blockchain protocol for issuing self-sovereign, and verifiable credentials for Web3, the next generation of the Internet.
KILT’s mission is to return control over personal data to its owner, restoring privacy to the individual.
Developers and entrepreneurs can use KILT’s SDK to quickly spin up applications for issuing, holding and verifying credentials in order to create businesses around identity and privacy.
```

Reviewer: I have the feeling this does not belong to the glossary, at least not in this form.

### Request for Attestation

> A request made by a third party to an attester to verify the authenticity of a claim made by a claimer. The request for attestation includes the specific claim type and attributes to be verified, and it can be used to generate verifiable credentials that can be shared with others.

Reviewer: 1. I don't think the first sentence is true.
2. I think we moved away from requests for attestation altogether, so I would simply eliminate this definition, unless you have a strong case to put it in.

Author: We still have this in our documentation though I do understand.

Reviewer: Yes? If it not used to refer to a generic request for attestation but to our old type, then they should be removed from there and not added here.

Author: I can remove it
```suggestion
```

### Trust Anchors

Entities that are trusted to issue or verify claims on the KILT network, such as governments, educational institutions, or professional organizations.

### Trust Market

> A market that operates on trust and reputation rather than financial incentives, where buyers and sellers exchange goods or services based on established reputation through digital platforms. While trust markets offer benefits such as reducing the need for intermediaries, they also face challenges that need to be addressed to maintain trust and fairness in transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A market that operates on trust and reputation in addition to financial incentives, where buyers and sellers exchange goods or services based on established reputation through digital platforms.
While trust markets offer benefits such as reducing the need for intermediaries, they also face challenges that need to be addressed to maintain trust and fairness in transactions.
```

### Transport-Agnostic Messaging Layer

> A messaging system that is not dependent on any particular communication protocol or technology. It allows different systems or applications to communicate with each other regardless of the underlying transport protocol used, providing a standardized way of exchanging messages across different platforms and technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A messaging system that is not dependent on any particular communication protocol or technology.
It allows different systems or applications to communicate with each other regardless of the underlying transport protocol used, providing a standardized way of exchanging messages across different platforms and technologies.
```

### Verifier

> A person, organization, or system that checks the validity and authenticity of an individual's credentials or qualifications. Verifiers play a critical role in building trust and ensuring that credentials are accurate and reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A person, organization, or system that checks the validity and authenticity of an individual's credentials or qualifications.
Verifiers play a critical role in building trust and ensuring that credentials are accurate and reliable.
```

> ## Eco-system terms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ecosystem Terms
```

### Blockchain Technology

> A type of distributed ledger technology that allows multiple parties to have a synchronized, transparent, and immutable record of transactions. It uses cryptographic techniques to secure and verify transactions, and it does not require a central authority or intermediaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A type of distributed ledger technology that allows multiple parties to have a synchronized, transparent, and immutable record of transactions.
It uses cryptographic techniques to secure and verify transactions, and it does not require a central authority or intermediaries.
```

### Decentralized Network

> A network of computers or nodes that operate without a central authority or control. In a decentralized network, each node has equal control over the network, and decisions are made through a consensus mechanism, rather than by a single entity or group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A network of computers or nodes that operate without a central authority or control.
In a decentralized network, each node has equal control over the network, and decisions are made through a consensus mechanism, rather than by a single entity or group.
```

### Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)

> A type of digital database that stores information across a network of computers or nodes. It allows multiple parties to have a synchronized, transparent, and immutable record of transactions, without the need for a central authority or intermediaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A type of digital database that stores information across a network of computers or nodes.
It allows multiple parties to have a synchronized, transparent, and immutable record of transactions, without the need for a central authority or intermediaries.
```

### Extrinsics

> A transaction that originates from an external account and affects the state of the blockchain. It can be used to execute actions on the network, such as transferring funds, making governance decisions, use functionality of the parachain or interacting with smart contracts. More details about Extrinsics can be found at the [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-extrinsics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction that originates from an external account and affects the state of the blockchain.
It can be used to execute actions on the network, such as transferring funds, making governance decisions, use functionality of the parachain or interacting with smart contracts. More details about Extrinsics can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-extrinsics)
```

### Parachain

> A specialized blockchain that runs on top of the Polkadot network and is connected to the main network through a relay chain. More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A specialized blockchain that runs on top of the Polkadot network and is connected to the main network through a relay chain.
More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains)
```

### Polkadot

> A multi-chain network that allows for interoperability between different blockchain protocols, including the KILT Protocol. More details about Polkadot can be found on their [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/getting-started#what-is-polkadot)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multi-chain network that allows for interoperability between different blockchain protocols, including the KILT Protocol.
More details about Polkadot can be found on their [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/getting-started#what-is-polkadot)
```

### Substrate

> A modular blockchain development framework used to build custom blockchain solutions, including the KILT Protocol. More details about Substrate can be found on their [offical documentation](https://docs.substrate.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A modular blockchain development framework used to build custom blockchain solutions, including the KILT Protocol blockchain.
More details about Substrate can be found on their [offical Polkadot documentation](https://docs.substrate.io/)
```

### Relay Chain

> The central chain in the Polkadot network that coordinates communication and consensus between different parachains. More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-architecture)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The central chain in the Polkadot network that coordinates communication and consensus between different parachains.
More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-architecture)
```

> I hope this glossary helps clarify some of the key terms related to the KILT Protocol!

Reviewer: Who's I?

```suggestion
I hope this glossary helps clarify some of the key terms related to the KILT Protocol!
```

Author: ```suggestion
KILT Team hope this glossary helps clarify some key terms related to the KILT Protocol!
```

Reviewer 2: I would remove the sentence. Looks like it belongs to the `Relay Chain` section.

---
id: glossary
title: KILT Glossary
---

Here is a glossary of terms related to the KILT Protocol:

## W3C: Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)

### Decentralized Identifiers (DID)

Stands for Decentralized Identifier, a unique identifier for entities (people, organizations, or things) that can be anchored to a blockchain and provides verifiable digital identity.
For example, **did:kilt:4sxSYXakw1ZXBymzT9t3Yw91mUaqKST5bFUEjGEpvkTuckar**.
In KILT, identity is built by obtaining credentials linked to the DID.
A DID can be used for people, machines, services and anything that identities can be built on.

### DID Authentication

> DID authentication is the process of proving that a DID owner has control over a DID, typically by using a digital signature or other cryptographic mechanism.

Reviewer 2: They want to prove that they are the owner. They might not be the owner.

```suggestion
DID authentication is the process of proving that an entity has control over a DID, typically by using a digital signature or other cryptographic mechanism.
```

A DID method is a set of rules and specifications for how a DID is created, resolved, and managed on a particular network or platform.

### DID Resolver

A DID resolver is a software component that can resolve a DID to a DID Document, which contains information about the DID, such as public keys, service endpoints, and other metadata.

### Self-Sovereign Identity

A decentralized digital identity management system that enables individuals to own and control their identity information using secure digital technologies, such as blockchain.
SSI eliminates the need for intermediaries and provides individuals with greater privacy, security, and control over their personal data.
It is an emerging concept that has the potential to transform how identity is managed and verified across various sectors.

### Verifiable Credentials

Verifiable credentials are digital credentials that can be used to prove claims about a person, organization, or thing, and are designed to be portable, interoperable, and privacy-preserving.
Verifiable credentials are often associated with DIDs and can be stored and managed using a DID-based identity system.

## KILT Protocol Specific Terms

### Attestation

> The act of providing evidence or confirming the validity of a claim, typically performed by a trusted attester.

Reviewer 2: isn't that a piece of data that proves the validity of a claim?
The act of providing evidence is `verification`?

Author: Yes, but the attesters do verify the data. That is their purpose. The Attestation is signing it after making the claim that the claim is correct.

Reviewer 2: Yes that's true. Maybe we should make this somewhat clear, that they don't verify the credential but the data and issue their approval/confirmation of the data.

Author: ```suggestion
The act of providing evidence or confirming the validity of the data within the claim, typically performed by a trusted attester. 
```

### Attester

> A person, organization or entity that verifies and validates the identity or credentials of an individual in a digital or physical setting.

Reviewer 2: This is rather a verifier?
The attester validates properties (in a digital or physical setting) of an entity and issues credentials?

Author: And they verify the information. I think you are separating the two too much. I would argue that the attester verifies information as well as validates it. Verify in this context is to make sure the data is correct. 

The attester stamps that they have done this as the attestation. The verifier takes that trusted stamp of approval and checks by verifying the data integrate to ensure the data matches but uses the attestation as a bridge of trust.

Reviewer 2: But their main task is to issue the attestation and for that they need to verify the data. I would prefer if we could stress the point of attesting, rather than the verifying point. For someone not knowing anything about this it might be difficult to spot the difference between verifiers and entities that verify.

Author: ```suggestion
An entity makes sure that certain statements are accurate. This entity examines claims made by other entities and only approves those that are true, issuing a certification. However, there may be dishonest attesters who approve false statements as well.
```

Author: How does this sound?

Reviewer 2: sounds good

Attesters play a critical role in building trust and establishing the authenticity of information and data shared between parties.

### Claimer

An individual or entity that asserts a claim or statement about their identity or qualifications.

> The claimer can use digital credentials, such as badges or certificates, to provide evidence of their claims, which can be verified by third-party entities or systems.

Reviewer 2: Badges??

```suggestion
The claimer can use credentials to provide evidence of their claims, which can be verified by third-party entities or systems.
```

### Claim Type (CType)

A specific type of claim that can be made about an individual, such as their education, work experience, or identity information.

> Each claim type has a defined set of attributes that must be provided to support the claim, and it can be used to generate verifiable credentials that can be shared with others.

Reviewer 2: THis doesn't seem 100% accurate. The attributes don't support the claim. They are the claim?

Maybe we can link to the CType concept page from here? https://docs.kilt.io/docs/concepts/credentials/ctypes

Author: Yes, it can support data integrity by creating a structure to check the data types against. 

```suggestion
Each claim type has a defined set of attributes that must be provided to support the claims data type and structure. It can be used to generate verifiable credentials that can be shared with others. [CTypes concept page for more details](https://docs.kilt.io/docs/concepts/credentials/ctypes)
```

### Credential

> A verifiable digital representation of a claim made by a claimer, which has been attested to by a trusted entity, such as an attester.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A verifiable digital representation of a claim made by a claimer, which has been attested to by a trusted entity called attester.
```

Author: It can be called attester and issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
A verifiable digital representation of a claim made by a claimer, which has been attested to by a trusted entity, such as an attester or issuer.
```

Reviewer 2: ok

It consists of a set of attributes that describe the claim and the proof of its validity, and can be shared with third parties to provide verifiable proof of the claim.

### Digital Identity

> A self-sovereign identity that is owned and controlled by the individual or entity it represents. It consists of verifiable credentials that are issued by trusted entities, such as attesters, and can be used to prove claims about the individual or entity's identity, qualifications, or other attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A self-sovereign identity that is owned and controlled by the individual or entity it represents.
It consists of verifiable credentials that are issued by trusted entities, such as attesters, and can be used to prove claims about the individual or entity's identity, qualifications, or other attributes.
```

### KILT Coin

> The native coin of the KILT Protocol network, used for staking, transaction fees and as a means of exchange on the network.

Reviewer 2: Do we call it Coin or Token? I think coin sounds more like gambling.

This misses the main point. The KILT exists to pay for DIDs and attestations. The rest is simply a necessity.

```suggestion
### KILT Token

The native token of the KILT blockchain used for paying for attestations and DIDs. It can also be used for governance, staking, transaction fees and as a means of exchange on the network.
```

### KILT Protocol

An open-source blockchain protocol for issuing self-sovereign, and verifiable credentials for Web3, the next generation of the Internet.
KILT’s mission is to return control over personal data to its owner, restoring privacy to the individual.

> Developers and entrepreneurs can use KILT’s SDK to quickly spin up applications for issuing, holding and verifying credentials in order to create businesses around identity and privacy.

Reviewer 2: i would remove that sentence. Sounds like we have the businesses side in mind and not the users.

> Developers and entrepreneurs can use KILT’s SDK to quickly spin up applications for issuing, holding and verifying credentials in order to create businesses around identity and privacy.

Author: ```suggestion
```

It uses cryptographic techniques to secure and verify transactions, and it does not require a central authority or intermediaries.

### Decentralized Network

A network of computers or nodes that operate without a central authority or control.
In a decentralized network, each node has equal control over the network, and decisions are made through a consensus mechanism, rather than by a single entity or group.

### Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)

A type of digital database that stores information across a network of computers or nodes.
It allows multiple parties to have a synchronized, transparent, and immutable record of transactions, without the need for a central authority or intermediaries.

### Extrinsics

A transaction that originates from an external account and affects the state of the blockchain.
It can be used to execute actions on the network, such as transferring funds, making governance decisions, use functionality of the parachain or interacting with smart contracts. More details about Extrinsics can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-extrinsics)

### Parachain

> A specialized blockchain that runs on top of the Polkadot network and is connected to the main network through a relay chain.

Reviewer 2: What is the main network? Isn't that the relaychain?

Author: ```suggestion
A specialized blockchain that runs on top of the Polkadot network and is connected through the relay chain.
```

### Parachain

A specialized blockchain that runs on top of the Polkadot network and is connected to the main network through a relay chain.
More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains)

### Polkadot

A multi-chain network that allows for interoperability between different blockchain protocols, including the KILT Protocol.
More details about Polkadot can be found on their [offical documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/getting-started#what-is-polkadot)

### Substrate

A modular blockchain development framework used to build custom blockchain solutions, including the KILT Protocol blockchain.
More details about Substrate can be found on their [offical Polkadot documentation](https://docs.substrate.io/)

### Relay Chain

The central chain in the Polkadot network that coordinates communication and consensus between different parachains.
More details about Parachains can be found at the [offical Polkadot documentation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-architecture)

> I hope this glossary helps clarify some of the key terms related to the KILT Protocol!

Author: ```suggestion
```
